       Parade Version 2.2

       Release Notes



Contacts

A J Smith    FGE        arthur.smith@fluidgravity.co.uk
M Fertig     IRS        fertig@irs.uni-stuttgart.de              
L Marraffa   ESTEC/YPA  lionel.marraffa@esa.int

please notify me of new users and your e-mail so I can keep you all up
to date and collect your problems. The current PARADE build standard 
is given in the file report.txt. 
 
A J Smith
6 July 2006



on Intel and compatible PC's compile with single precision (real *4,int *4)

Since v1.4, delivered to team members under ESTEC contract 11148/94/NL/FG 
the following changes have been made:

v1.4.1 Minor changes to allow execution on the IBM RISC 6000 series

v1.4.2 Minor changes to common blocks for execution on the Dec Alpha
       and SGI.
       Note that for these machines, compile with double precision ( real *8)
       and int *4 

v1.5   correction to allow correct atomic line calculation when using
       qss routines now both group degeneracies are read in with the level
       data, and individual level degeneracies are read with the transition
       data.
       This is a temporary measure as it makes the input files complex.  Note
       new data files are also issued.
    
       corrections to the use of partition function when calculating the 
       excited level number densities and equivalent temperatures for
       molecules,  equilibrium  and nonequilibrium respectively.
       (note still only N2+, but extension is now easy)

       optical depth for escape factor in qss claculation is hardwired 
       so FORT 1 file is not needed.

       corrections to NEQAIR85 routines as previously notified

       This version (V1.5) is the distributed code from ESTEC until Jan 2003)
 
v1.6   After the end of the first contract phase Seb Kanne made a further correction for
       group degeneracies to function correctly.  We still regard this as a
       temporary measure in the input files which will probably still be present in
       V2 WTS!

       recently some rearrangement of common blocks for F90 compatability
       memory restrictions removed (ie only one parade.inc file is necessary since we now
       have much bigger memory PC's (suggest 256Mb), in this case if GRID.FLO is present
       a whole flowfield solution will be undertaken. (instead of hardwiring ix, iy in parade.inc)

       LINK$ is tested only if present
   
       This code (v1.6) is the starting point for CCN1

v1.7   PARADE can now solve the 1D, non-scattering, radiation transport equation.

       The relevant routines for the interface with PARADE, solving the RTE and
       calculating the output are in the following source code files:
          fluxes.f90
          integrate.f90
          precision.f90
          rad_field.f90
          rad_prog.f90
          rad_trans.f90
          radiation.f90
          transport.f90

       'Makefile's are included, for compilation with the Portland or Intel Fortran 90 compilers.

       An input file 'radiation.in', which specifies the options, must be present for
       the routines to run successfully. An example of the file 'radiation.in' is
       included, which describes the possible commands and how the file should be
       formatted.

       The routines are called automatically from within PARADE at the end of its
       calculations of emission and absorption coefficients. They first check that
       the option file 'radiation.in' is present in the current directory. If it is
       and is read without errors, the solution of the RTE can proceed. In any case,
       the required data are stored in the unformatted file 'radiation.arg' so that
       the RTE routines can be run again later, without having to recalculate the
       emission and absorption coefficients.

       The routines can also be called directly from the command line after PARADE has
       already been called, by typing the command 'radiation'. The files 'radiation.in'
       and 'radiation.arg' must both be present for this to be successful.
       The user manual will be updated at the end of CCN1.
 
       The 1D transport does not work with adaptive wavelength descretisation

       Note it is the intention to move PARADE completely to f90 but this is not 
       scheduled under CCN1, but new routines should take full advantage of f90 features.

       NIST data implemented for atomic species of interest

v1.8   Includes air molecules from the thesis of Laux + new discretisation routine for
       molecules (cant be used with adaptive routines). Interface to HERTA updated but is maintained as a
       separate main routine.

v1.9   Many refinements to molecules datafiles particularly CN, some refinements to ease of use and
       radiation transport. 

v2.0   Deliverable under CCN1, also includes CO4+

v2.1   Main memory allocation is now under F90.  This is a 'quick fix' to ease
       usage on differing problems

v2.2   New reading of NIST data (from original database format)
       Gaunt factors internal calculation for bound-free radiation
       Pseudo-species model implemented for CN
       Add molecules data CO$^{+}$ and CH
       Suppression of FORT4 file
       More output choices for the user
          
